CLI memory sampler (Linux cgroup v1, Python 3.8+ standard library)

Isolated native allocation feasibility experiment (NOT a sampler upgrade)
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Run the separate "Native allocation feasibility" GitHub Actions workflow on
ops/native-allocation-probe. Do not run native_allocation_probe.py on the
production host. Its Python 3.10+ harness requires GITHUB_ACTIONS=true.
No new production sampler options, services or permissions are installed.

This experiment deliberately uses the established heaptrack malloc profiler,
not a new allocator hook. heaptrack launches fresh processes with LD_PRELOAD:
no perf/BPF policy relaxation, debugger attach or credentials are required.
This does NOT mean its full allocation tracing is suitable for always-on use.
It can block/slow the subject, consume memory and change allocation timing.

The C fixture has exact known malloc/calloc/realloc/free totals, including a
failed realloc, worker-thread allocation, release and deliberately outstanding
memory. A separate mmap allocation illustrates memory outside these totals.
Folded stacks are checked in bytes, not merely for a function-name substring
somewhere in a text report. A second run kills only the disposable fixture
with SIGKILL and checks that the selected earlier allocation/free evidence
survives. It is NOT an actual OOM test or proof of lossless final capture.

The official standalone CLI runs --acp without protocol requests, in an empty
HOME with an allowlisted environment and no credentials. A test-only Node
preload allocates 32+16 MiB Buffers, releases the first with explicit GC, then
exits. These forced-GC and SIGKILL operations are restricted to the fixtures,
not production diagnostics. Three baseline/traced pairs measure total reaped
process-tree CPU, end-to-end wall time and subject peak RSS. A killed CLI run
checks selected earlier native Buffer stacks survive. This validates a known
native Buffer path, NOT the unknown V8 malloc path seen in production.

Initial conservative synthetic gates:
  - Exact C fixture peak/outstanding bytes for all four named call paths.
  - At least 32 MiB of CLI peak allocations with a named Buffer/ArrayBuffer/
    BackingStore native frame, in every traced pair.
  - Selected known allocation/free evidence readable after subject SIGKILL.
  - Paired median extra CPU <5% of one core, extra subject peak RSS <32 MiB,
    and traced/baseline wall-time ratio <1.25.
Threshold equality fails. Empty/malformed stack files or incomplete phases
are errors, not successful captures. Actual values and failed gates are
retained even if a well-formed experiment fails the eligibility thresholds.

The entire disposable service (subjects AND collectors) is limited to 1536 MiB,
no swap, 128 tasks and 480 seconds; each regular file is capped at 64 MiB.
An aggregate 128 MiB artifact check runs between subjects, not per write; it
can overshoot within a run. Each subprocess has a 60-second deadline, and
systemd cleans remaining descendants when the experiment service exits.
Collector memory is covered by the service ceiling but is not included in
the subject-RSS overhead metric. This is bounded-duration FULL tracing, not
an always-on sampled allocator map with bounded storage and loss accounting.

Artifacts contain synthetic traces, native stacks, resource measurements,
CLI SHA256/ELF BuildID, runtime/tool versions and summary.json. No local crash
logs, actual session files, prompts, code or credentials are uploaded.
Output contains process paths and stack symbols; real-world traces would
require separate local handling and review before sharing.

Always read summary.json: a green workflow means the experiment ran, not that
all eligibility gates passed. production_ready and root_cause_proven remain
false even when synthetic_gates_passed is true. Direct mmap/custom allocators,
JIT stack symbolization, allocation-event loss, allocator retention and actual
OOM reproduction remain outside this first gate. Missing internal V8 symbols
may still require a matching symbolized build or upstream symbolization.
Do not deploy full tracing based only on a passing synthetic Buffer fixture.

V8 allocation anomaly capture (sampler 2, internal schema 2)
-----------------------------------------------------------
Upgrade BOTH service and launcher using the two commands below from one green
Actions artifact. No protection limits or application services are changed.
Running CLIs keep their old preload; only a newly launched diagnostic session
gets the new internal fields. The upgraded collector accepts schema 1 and 2.

Internal sampling remains every 2s normally. V8 malloced memory >=64 MiB on
entering an allocation episode, or a >=32 MiB rise between samples, triggers
0.5s internal sampling for 30s after the last rise. Constant high memory alone
does not extend this window indefinitely. Falling below 32 MiB rearms the
episode threshold. Output backpressure still skips collection rather than
building a queue. These are diagnostic thresholds, not memory limits.

Additional numeric fields: heap_physical_bytes, global_handles_total_bytes,
global_handles_used_bytes, code_and_metadata_bytes, bytecode_and_metadata_bytes,
external_script_source_bytes, cpu_profiler_metadata_bytes, next_interval_ms.
These describe V8 heap/code accounting, NOT all native allocations and NOT
malloc call stacks. The version-only allowlisted metadata contains embedded
Node/V8, sampler and CLI versions. New launchers query the original executable's
--version once inside the protected child before launching; failure refuses
the diagnostic launch. Older launchers/direct preload use report CLI version
as "unavailable" rather than inventing it. No environment/arguments are logged.

The external collector independently detects allocation episode entry (64 MiB
level or 32 MiB delta, rearmed below 32 MiB), even from old internal schema 1.
It switches to 0.5s external samples for 30s and reads thread CPU statistics at
most once per second for 30s: up to 4 confirmed Copilot processes and 64 threads
per process per cycle. Truncation, read errors and skipped intervals are explicit.
Thread records include kernel thread names (up to 64 characters), TID/start ticks,
CPU totals and deltas with elapsed seconds; names may be application-defined,
so treat these local files as private. No stacks, commands or environment are read.
PID/group/TID identity is checked; a reused thread gets a new baseline, not a
delta from its predecessor. CPU percent = delta_ticks / clock_ticks / elapsed
seconds * 100. A busy thread is a lead, not proof it allocated memory.

Allocation anomalies retain their own pre/post evidence without waiting for OOM:
  allocation-before.jsonl and allocation-after.jsonl, each at most 1 MiB;
  two older pairs with .1/.2 suffixes, at most 6 MiB total for all three pairs.
Post capture lasts up to 60s, stops explicitly at its file cap, and nearby
anomalies merge into an active capture. The pre-window uses the existing
300-record/4 MiB ring, retaining only the suffix that fits in 1 MiB.
Normal sample rotation never replaces these files. Allocation state is reset
on service restart (a still-high process can become a new episode); an unfinished
post capture is not resumed. Pair rotation is not atomic across files: compare
boot_id, time and allocation_incident markers after interruption.

The existing latest OOM pair is independent and unchanged (8 MiB), and rolling
samples retain 16 MiB. The new overall data-file bound is therefore 30 MiB.
The service still has a 32 MiB memory limit, 5% CPU quota and 4 MiB per-file
kernel limit; allocation evidence has an additional 1 MiB application limit.

Native profiling follow-up
-------------------------
This release does NOT attach perf, change perf_event_paranoid, start a debugger,
force GC or generate heap snapshots. Check matching perf tools, permissions,
unwind sections and symbol availability before a separate isolated profiling
experiment. CPU stacks show execution, not allocation ownership; native malloc
stacks need a compatible allocation profiler and separate overhead validation.
Stripped standalone binaries may only provide module offsets/exported symbols.
Keep captures local and review before sharing. Do not enable heap snapshots at
the memory ceiling: they block the event loop, need substantial extra memory,
and do not directly account for the observed V8 malloc allocation spike.

Opt-in internal telemetry and burst sampling
-------------------------------------------
Upgrade from the same green Actions package (do not mix revisions):

  sudo python3 -B ./memory_sampler_service.py --install --uid "$(id -u)"
  sudo python3 -B ./cpg_admin.py upgrade-launcher

The first command restarts only the external sampler and preserves logs. The
second updates only the recorded launcher/admin code, leaving live CLIs,
configuration, guard units, and the 1536 MiB limit untouched. It refuses changed
installation files or a mismatched common policy module.

Start a NEW diagnostic session from an ordinary terminal:

  cpg --memory-sampling --yolo

The option must be first. Otherwise all arguments are forwarded literally.
Plain cpg remains unchanged. Sampling requires the enabled guard and a working
external service; failed preflight refuses to launch rather than quietly falling
back. The original executable is started with Node SEA's --node-options channel,
not NODE_OPTIONS (ignored by the tested standalone build). No CLI files are
patched, no debugger port is opened, and no external Node installation is needed.
Compatibility is verified against standalone CLI 1.0.88, not guaranteed for future
builds: look for "[cpg-memory] internal numeric sampling connected (2s)" and actual
runtime.samples records, not just the launcher's "requested" message.

The preload samples every 2 seconds normally in the MAIN Node isolate only:
  V8 heap used/total/limit, external and ArrayBuffer bytes;
  V8 malloced/peak malloced bytes, native/detached context counts;
  cumulative observed GC count/major count/duration;
  timer delay, collection duration, sequence and dropped-sample count.
process.memoryUsage() may walk page metadata; no heap objects are traversed.
GC is observed, never forced. Timer delay is a coarse lag measurement, not a
latency histogram. These metrics exclude other isolates' JS heaps and do NOT
measure all Rust/C++ allocations. ArrayBuffers are included in external; do not
add them together. RSS minus heap is not an exact native-memory measurement.
No prompts, source, environment, raw memory, stacks or command lines are logged.
Only bounded version strings and anomaly-window thread names supplement numbers.

PID scoping and main-thread checks prevent inherited worker/helper sampling.
The preload does not keep the CLI alive. At most one small pending socket write
is allowed; unavailable/backpressured receivers drop samples, report an explicit
rate-limited warning and count drops. Reconnection retries are spaced by 10s.
It cannot sample while the event loop is blocked or after SIGKILL. Data not yet
received by the external service can be lost. This is attribution evidence, not
a guarantee of identifying the exact leaking function.

The external non-root service owns /run/cli-memory-sampler-UID/runtime.sock,
inside its private 0700 RuntimeDirectory (socket 0600). It authenticates peers
using SO_PEERCRED and checks executable, cgroup and process start ticks on first
data. Identity stays bound to that connection, including buffered data after
exit; data cannot supply a PID. Same-user IPC is not a malicious-user boundary.
The numeric protocol has a 2 KiB record limit, 16 connections, 64 pending records
and bounded per-cycle work. Rejected/dropped records are explicit counters and
alerts. No network listener or additional privileged service is introduced.

Only the external sampler writes files. Each ordinary sample contains runtime:
  status, connections, rejected, dropped, samples[]
Each internal entry has pid, start_ticks, received_monotonic_seconds, metrics.
An empty list is NOT zero memory: inspect connection counts, times and sequences
for missing/stale telemetry. Entries may belong to a process that just exited.
Correlate with the outer boot_id and external PID/start_ticks; internal wall time
and receipt time differ. A single external sample can include several internal
records. Samples with internal records are flushed and fsynced; the same records
are retained in oom-before/after with the existing incident capture mechanism.
Only already-received records are durable against a CLI-only OOM.

Continuous external basic sampling accelerates from 2s to 0.5s when group usage
reaches 1126 MiB or rises by at least 128 MiB between observations, and stays fast
for 60s after the last trigger. Smaps detail frequency is unchanged. Actual
cadence is limited by reads and the existing 5% CPU quota. The 300-record incident
ring now spans roughly 2.5-10 minutes depending on pressure; 30 MiB file bounds
and 32 MiB external-service memory limit remain unchanged. Internal overhead is
charged to the CLI's guard and is NOT capped by external-service limits.

Actions checks the real standalone preload/IPC, synthetic allocation/GC and
worker exclusion, reconnects, synthetic median extra CPU <1% of one core and
peak RSS <10 MiB, and internal-data survival after a real disposable-VM OOM.
These are synthetic acceptance budgets, not a bound on real interactive CLI
workloads. Collection durations and dropped counts help detect observer effects.

Enhanced numeric metrics (schema 2)
----------------------------------
Upgrade an existing service with the same --install --uid command below, from
the new verified package. This briefly restarts only the sampler. Existing
rolling samples and latest OOM evidence are retained; schema 1 and 2 records
may coexist. No CLI flags, guard limits or application services are changed.

Every basic sample now also records:
  Per process: cpu_user_ticks, cpu_system_ticks, minor_faults, major_faults,
               virtual_bytes (VmSize), data_virtual_bytes (VmData),
               stack_virtual_bytes (VmStk), page_table_bytes (VmPTE),
               shared_memory_bytes (RssShmem).
  Cgroup:      total_pgfault and total_pgmajfault, from memory.stat.
  Sample:      schema=2, clock_ticks_per_second, monotonic_seconds,
               sample_duration_ms (proc/group/detail collection only).

CPU and fault counters are cumulative for that process (including its threads,
excluding reaped children). Use only identical boot_id, PID and start_ticks
when calculating deltas. One-core CPU percent is:
  100 * delta(cpu_user_ticks + cpu_system_ticks)
      / clock_ticks_per_second / delta(monotonic_seconds)
It can exceed 100% for a multithreaded process. Fault counts are NOT allocation
bytes or OOM counts: minor faults need no backing-store page read, while major
faults can involve file I/O. VmSize/VmData are virtual mappings, NOT physical
memory used; they may stay high after RSS falls. VmStk does not sum all native
worker stacks. Cgroup and process counters differ in scope and are not atomic.

Only confirmed Copilot executables receive low-frequency smaps_rollup details:
  First observation: baseline.
  Normal group usage: at most once per 60 seconds per process.
  Charged group usage >= 1126 MiB: at most once per 30 seconds per process.
The high-memory condition does not bypass the 30-second minimum spacing.
Basic sampling continues every two seconds in continuous mode.

memory_detail includes its status, sampled_at and read_duration_ms. Successful
reads include RSS/PSS, anonymous memory, private/shared clean/dirty pages,
swap, and kernel-dependent anonymous huge pages, lazy-free pages and PSS
breakdowns. All memory fields are bytes. Optional unsupported fields are null
and listed in unavailable_fields, never fabricated as zero. Records marked
not_due contain no stale/cached values; not_copilot identifies skipped helpers.
Missing/denied/malformed rollups are explicit read_error entries with sanitized
operation/type/errno, while basic sampling continues. Failed detail reads are
rate-limited too. PID identity and group membership are checked before and
after detail reads; raced data is discarded, not attached to a reused PID.

smaps_rollup walks kernel page accounting; it does not copy or inspect the
heap. No debugger, process signal, heap dump or per-allocation tracing is used.
It still cannot identify JavaScript objects or Rust/C++ allocations, and RSS
minus V8 heap size is not an exact native-memory measure. Slow kernel reads
can delay collection; the recorded durations expose this rather than promising
an exact cadence. The existing 32 MiB / 5% CPU / 24 MiB data-file bounds remain
unchanged; larger records can shorten the history retained within those bounds.

Continuous, boot-enabled service (recommended for capturing the next OOM)
----------------------------------------------------------------------
The optional continuous mode samples normal activity every two seconds with
no two-hour deadline (with faster pressure bursts described above). Install it once from the verified Actions package:

  sudo python3 -B ./memory_sampler_service.py --install --uid "$(id -u)"

Run this in an ordinary SSH terminal. Never send sudo passwords to a CLI agent.
The installer replaces only this UID's previous sampler service, copies the
runtime into root-owned /usr/local/libexec/cli-memory-sampler, and enables a
system service at boot. It does not alter the Copilot guard, application or SSH.
The Python sampler runs as the selected non-root user in system.slice, outside
cpg.slice, so closing the CLI/SSH or a protected CLI OOM does not stop collection.
The cpg setup service is ordered first at boot. A missing/disabled/changed
guard remains an explicit sampling failure; no limits are silently relaxed.
An unexpected sampler failure restarts after 30 seconds; manual stop stays
stopped until explicitly started or the machine reboots.

For UID 1001:
  Service: cli-memory-sampler-1001.service
  Output:  /var/lib/cli-memory-sampler-1001/ (persistent across reboot)

  systemctl status cli-memory-sampler-1001.service --no-pager
  tail -n 2 /var/lib/cli-memory-sampler-1001/samples.jsonl
  sudo journalctl -u cli-memory-sampler-1001.service -n 30 --no-pager
  sudo systemctl stop cli-memory-sampler-1001.service
  sudo systemctl disable --now cli-memory-sampler-1001.service

Storage is bounded, including over indefinite operation:
  samples.jsonl + .1/.2/.3: at most 4 MiB each, 16 MiB total; oldest overwritten.
  oom-before.jsonl: up to 4 MiB, at most 300 samples including the detected OOM
                    (roughly ten minutes normally, 2.5 minutes during bursts).
  oom-after.jsonl: up to 4 MiB, observations through 60 seconds after detection.
  Allocation evidence: at most 6 MiB across three pairs, described above.
  Total sample/evidence file content: at most 30 MiB, plus an empty .lock.

There is only one retained OOM incident, in addition to allocation episodes.
The OOM incident is replaced when the cumulative OOM
counter increases again, never just because ordinary logs rotate. Evidence is
flushed and fsynced on each write. Updating the fixed evidence files is not
atomic across files; an interruption while replacing an incident can leave an
incomplete incident. Compare record times, boot_id and the incident marker.
An oversized post window ends explicitly with OOM_POST_CAPTURE_FULL in the
normal log, not by exceeding its bound.

Startup restores recent pre-event samples and the OOM baseline from rolling
logs on the SAME kernel boot. Thus an increase during a sampler restart gap
can be detected, but no observations can be reconstructed for that gap.
A different boot or decreasing counter is not treated as a fresh OOM.
A restart preserves existing incident files but does not resume an unfinished
60-second post window. A torn final ordinary log record from an abrupt exit is
discarded with an explicit RECOVERED_INCOMPLETE_RECORD diagnostic.

The sampler retains the 32 MiB memory / 5% of one CPU / 8 task / 4 MiB per-file
limits described below. Continuous mode does NOT append console.log forever:
small operational diagnostics go to the existing system journal, rate-limited
to 10 messages per minute. Journal retention is governed by host policy, not
included in the 24 MiB private sample bound; no host journal setting is changed.
The previous transient service's /tmp logs are left intact, not migrated or
deleted. Those existing files are separate from the new fixed 24 MiB budget.

Sample timestamps, PID/start ticks, per-process RSS, cgroup RSS/cache/usage,
host available memory, exits and OOM counter deltas support correlation.
An OOM counter increase proves an observed kill in the protected hierarchy,
NOT which PID was killed. Two-second sampling can miss short-lived processes
and fast peaks, and cannot identify JS/native allocations or prove a memory
leak. Opt-in internal metrics narrow this gap but do not identify allocation stacks.
Obtain the kernel OOM record with sudo for the exact victim and allocation
context. This tool never reads prompts, command lines, environments or heaps.

The legacy bounded foreground/transient modes below remain available unchanged
unless --continuous is explicitly passed. All validation remains in Actions,
including synthetic rotation/restart/boot tests and a disposable legacy-cgroup
VM with a small OOM fixture (never on the production host). The VM checks
persistent enablement, restart, isolation and real OOM evidence capture.

Purpose and boundaries
----------------------
Observe normal work in a fresh CLI process and fresh session. Do not resume or
exercise an OOM-prone old session to establish a baseline. Do not provoke OOM.
Keep cpg.slice's exact 1.5 GiB (1610612736 byte) hard limit. This diagnostic
never changes the guard, CLI installation, existing services, or production application.
It sends no signals and does not kill observed processes. Foreground sampling
needs no sudo or installation. The optional bounded system service below needs
administrator authorization only to create its own transient service.

For foreground use, launch from a SEPARATE ordinary SSH shell, NOT a CLI tool, cpg shell,
or cpg descendant. The sampler refuses membership at /cpg.slice or below.
Keep that SSH connection open: this is a foreground process, not a daemon.
Use Ctrl-C to stop early. It stops automatically after at most two hours
(720 samples, ten seconds between samples; slow reads can reduce sample count).
It cannot guarantee a deadline while a kernel/filesystem read is blocked.

Keep all Python files from the matching Actions artifact side by side.
From that directory, run:

  python3 -B ./memory_sampler.py --output "$HOME/cli-memory-new-session" --label new-session

Bounded background service (approved deployment design)
------------------------------------------------------
Use memory_sampler_service.py from the same verified artifact. Run the launcher
as your normal user, never with sudo in front of Python:

  sudo -v
  python3 -B ./memory_sampler_service.py

The launcher prepares the private output directory, then uses sudo -n solely
for systemd-run. If authorization fails, it reports failure and no sampler is
started; do not grant broad passwordless sudo to work around this. The system
manager launches Python as your UID/GID in system.slice, OUTSIDE cpg.slice.
Thus launching this management command from cpg does not place the sampler in
cpg: the system manager, not the launcher, is its process parent.

This is a transient service, not an installed/boot-enabled daemon. SSH logout
does not stop it. No linger setting, application service or guard configuration
is changed. There is no automatic restart or recurring timer.

Hard resource limits:
  RuntimeMaxSec=7200       Maximum two hours; at most five seconds stop grace.
  MemoryMax=33554432       32 MiB charged to the sampler's own cgroup.
  CPUQuota=5%              At most 5% of one logical CPU, not 5% of the machine.
  TasksMax=8               Maximum threads/processes in this service.
  Nice=19                 Lowest ordinary CPU scheduling priority.
  IOSchedulingClass=idle   Idle I/O scheduling priority where supported.
  LimitFSIZE=4194304       Kernel per-file size limit of 4 MiB.

The sampler still reads every ten seconds. Kernel throttling, scheduler delay
or slow reads can reduce the number of observations. Resource limits are
ceilings, not promises about measured typical usage. Reaching a memory/file
limit can end only the sampler; it must never raise cpg's 1.5 GiB ceiling or
automatically retry. NoNewPrivileges and read-only system/home/cgroup mounts
restrict the service; only its private output directory is writable.

For UID 1001 the fixed service and output names are:
  cli-memory-sampler-1001.service
  /tmp/cli-memory-sampler-1001/

Other users get the same names with their numeric UID. A fixed name prevents
duplicate service instances and avoids a new directory on every run. JSONL
rotation remains <=16 MiB total; console.log appends startup/alert/error output
and is separately limited to 4 MiB by LimitFSIZE. The tool's files therefore
total <=20 MiB of content, plus small filesystem metadata. systemd's own
start/stop/failure metadata remains in the existing host journal; the tool
does not change global journal settings. Console output is not also streamed
to the journal. Files and directory remain 0600/0700.

Logs persist after stop; they are not deleted automatically. /tmp is temporary
storage and may be cleaned on reboot or by host policy. Repeated runs preserve
old data subject to JSONL rotation and the same fixed bounds. A full console
file causes a visible service failure rather than unbounded growth; archive
evidence privately before removing any full log. Never unlink .lock while a
writer may be running. No unlimited diagnostic archive is created by the tool.

Inspect (substitute your UID if different):
  systemctl status cli-memory-sampler-1001.service --no-pager
  tail -n 2 /tmp/cli-memory-sampler-1001/samples.jsonl
  tail -n 5 /tmp/cli-memory-sampler-1001/console.log

Stop early:
  sudo systemctl stop cli-memory-sampler-1001.service

KillSignal=SIGINT lets the sampler write an interrupted stop marker. systemd
uses SIGKILL only if it cannot stop within five seconds. A RuntimeMaxSec expiry
can leave Result=timeout even when SIGINT allowed a clean final log record.
The Python deadline normally ends first. For a failed previous run, inspect
its status and logs before explicitly clearing its failed state to start again:
  sudo systemctl reset-failed cli-memory-sampler-1001.service

Do not claim sampling is active until both the service state and recent sample
records have been observed. No old-session baseline or stress exercise is
needed; observe ordinary work in the new CLI process/session.

The output's parent must already exist and must not contain symlinks. For manual
foreground comparisons, use a new directory; the service reuses its fixed
directory and start/stop markers delimit each run. A directory must be owned by you
with permissions 0700; existing log/lock files must be owned, single-link
regular files with permissions 0600. Symlinks in directory ancestors, the
directory, the log, its backups, and the lock are rejected. The writer uses
directory-relative descriptors and a nonblocking advisory single-writer lock.
Leave .lock in place, including after exit; removing it can defeat locking.

Readouts
--------
Every record has a UTC time. Sample records include a user-supplied non-sensitive
label, process PID + kernel start ticks, PPID, RSS, anonymous/file-backed RSS,
peak RSS, swap, thread count, and is_copilot (executable basename comparison
only). Neither executable paths nor process names, command lines, environment,
session history, prompts, or tool/chat content are logged. Use a generic label;
do not encode private content in it. Executable inspection can be denied for
another user; is_copilot is then null with an explicit error. A wrapper whose
executable is not named copilot will not be classified as Copilot.

All enumerated processes below cpg.slice are included, not just Copilot. PID
reuse and exits during a read are explicitly marked. Between samples, process
identity changes and departures are recorded; a process that still exists
outside the group is marked left_group, not exited. Very short-lived processes
between samples are not observable. Samples are not atomic across processes
or cgroup counters. A process moving groups during a read can race observation.
Missing process status fields are null with explicit errors, never fake zeroes.

Group counters retain numeric usage, limit, total_cache, total_rss,
inactive_file, failcnt, hierarchy, oom_disabled and oom_kills. OOM victims are
summed across the parent and descendant groups using cpg_common's v1 helper.
Disappeared delegated groups can lower this cumulative sum; counter decreases
are recorded explicitly and are not interpreted as negative OOM events.
MemAvailable is read separately from /proc/meminfo.

Group usage is charged memory, NOT the sum of process RSS. Shared pages, cache,
kernel accounting, sampling races and differing scopes prevent equality.
total_rss is the kernel's cgroup-v1 statistic, not a summed process RSS.
Use all these measurements together; none proves a specific JS/native/TUI leak.

Warnings use charged group usage >= 1126 MiB (about 1.1 GiB), independently of
the guard monitor's working-set thresholds. HIGH_MEMORY is printed and logged
at most once per 60 seconds. RECOVERED marks falling below that threshold.
OOM_COUNTER_INCREASE and OOM_COUNTER_DECREASE mark observed counter changes.
Warnings are advisory only. There is no automatic restart, limit adjustment,
signal, kill or session cancellation.

Output and errors
-----------------
samples.jsonl is flushed after every record. It rotates before exceeding 4 MiB;
three backups (.1 newest to .3 oldest) bound JSONL storage to 16 MiB total.
Each file is 0600 in a 0700 directory. One oversized record is rejected rather
than truncating JSON or exceeding the bound. Existing oversized files or
unexpected numbered backups require a new output directory. Older evidence
can be evicted by rotation; preserve relevant files privately when stopped.

Per-process read errors are explicit in the sample and stderr; sampling other
processes continues. Group/host read or guard-boundary failures stop with a
nonzero exit code, an error record and a stop marker where logging still works.
Disk/permission/logging failures are reported to stderr and fail closed; no
stop marker can be promised when the output itself is unwritable. Exception
messages are not persisted: error operation/type/errno avoid leaking content.
Ctrl-C normally writes a stop marker and releases the lock. An abrupt kill or
SSH disconnect can leave no stop record. A successful start message alone is
not evidence of ongoing sampling: confirm recent sample records in the output.

Validation and delivery
-----------------------
All validation runs in GitHub Actions, never on the production host.
The CLI memory sampling workflow runs synthetic proc/cgroup tests plus existing
guard tests under Ubuntu 20.04 / Python 3.8. A disposable Ubuntu 20.04 VM also
checks real systemd 245/cgroup-v1 resource limits, non-root execution outside
cpg, observed CPU/memory overhead, runtime expiry, graceful stop, and the kernel
file-size bound. Only this sampler integration runs there, not the older guard
OOM stress scenario. The workflow publishes this file, the five Python sources,
revision.txt and SHA256SUMS after all checks pass. Production deployment is
separate, requires explicit approval, and is observation rather than a test
workload. No sampler is launched as a direct CLI-tool child on production.
